OK. I want to start thinking about a new project: changesets. This project idea encompasses the way we change files and code in sessions and then commit those changes to git. This idea is meant to enhance and replace the tiny little `Git Card` stub we have now (both its UI and the underlying tugcast middleware and git background monitoring we currently do), and provide the user with an excellent, AI-powered means to both track, understand, control, annotate, and commit their changes to a revision control system (which is git now, of course, but may be extended to other revision control systems in the future).

As I envision it, the `changeset` project should deliver several main features:

**File tracking**. One of the most intersesting findings along these lines is the way that the `tugplug:commit` skill has directed the session in which it is invoked to commit *only those files changed in the session*, and how the AI in the session *is actually able to do this to a very reliable degree*. I've been really quite amazed by how well I've been able to have multiple projects going in main, but then be able to properly segment out only those changed in the current session. In a way, this makes sense, since tool calls are the means the AI uses to modify its files, and the `Write` and `Edit` tools as we show them in the transcript include *only the editied hunks* in their expanded content in the tool call block renderer. So, in a way, it makes sense that the AI is able to look back into its context and see the files it has touched. The one "hole" in this is when the AI eschews these straightforward tool calls in favor of `Bash` calls that invoke `sed`, `awk`, `python`, `perl`, etc., so do file edits. It would be *great* if we could build a piece of infrastucture, perhaps backed by sqlite that siphons off these touched/edited file per session, thereby relieving the AI of having to track itself by looking back into its context. By this I mean that we *concentrate down* the AI's knowledge of when it has touched files and move it *closer to the point of change via a tool call* rather than relying on the model's ability to look back retrospectively. Does that make sense? I hope so. The goal is to be able to *know* changed files on a branch (be it `main` or a worktree branch) in the current session, even when multiple sessions might be working on that branch. My point is that, given our transcript-backed way of working: *this always is knowable*.

**Improve dash/branch/worktree/join**. Sometimes, it really does make sense to branch off a piece of work to a worktree, particularly when we have used `/devise` to create a plan and have `/implement` build it. But when we do this, `joining` (i.e. merging) this code back to main can sometimes be difficult and problematic. The current support in `tugutil dash` is *simply not good enough*. We need to improve this tools *mightily* to help manage worktrees and merge them back. The way I see it: we need to fix up the names, since `.tugtree` is an obsolete name` and `tugutil` itself is a grab bag of disparate features and `dash` is bolted onto it. We need to promote this worktree feature to a top-level capability of Tug, make it great, and integrate it with the improved **file tracking** I talked about above, to make working on dashes *the one true way* to work on complex projects in Tug.

**Improved multi-session changeset card to relace the git card**. I want a new `changeset card` that presents a complete and proper UI that will allow the human developer to see all their current outstanding changes in *all their live sessions* and understand what has changed *at a glance*. This card should also allow the human dev to see diffs, generate a summary, generate a commit message, and then *actually commit* changes from the card. The changeset card should be concise, reliable, and always live, up to the moment, never out of date.